ECE 6780 – Semi-Autonomous Rover
Team Name: Olivedrab
Team Members: Nicholas Western, Dmitry Panin, Jacob Tyler Herrmann, Braden Brown




Functions Overview:

In this project we are building a rover with two tasks to complete:
1.	Obstacle Course- Our rover will need to navigate a course with objects placed as obstacles throughout. We will need to steer the rover through the course without striking the obstacles and without being able to see our rover. 
2.	Drag Race – Our rover will attempt to drive as fast as possible to a finish line and stop as close to the finish line as possible, again, without us being able to watch the rover while it drives. 

In addition to the two tasks mentioned above; the obstacle course and the drag race, we also have to design our rover with the following constraints in mind:
1.	Our only connection to our rover is a wireless USART or RS232 NRZ (one start bit, seven or eight data bits, parity bits, and stop bits)
2.	Our rover must incorporate at least three topics we have covered in labs out of the following list: GPIO, Interrupts, Timers, UART, I2C, Analog, and PID. 
3.	Because we are a graduate group we are required to use PID along with three other options. 

Prototype:
Our current idea is to use an STM32F072 discovery board as our main controller. The topics we will implement at minimum, in addition to PID, from the labs will be GPIO, I2C, Analog, UART, and Interrupts. In general, the GPIO will be used as the main interface for the sensors. We will use interrupts that are tied to the input from the sensors to aid in obstacle avoidance. I2C will be used to talk with the color sensor, Analog will be used to talk with the IR sensors (their output is an analog voltage), and UART will be used to talk with the ultrasonic sensor’s UART output. We will incorporate PID with the motors to control the acceleration of the rover both for speeding up and down during the drag race and while avoiding obstacles. 

For the body of the rover we will use a prebuilt chassis (see BOM below) with two wheels that will be hooked up to motors/motor drivers and a third universal stabilizing wheel will be used on the front of the rover. We will place the IR sensors on the sides of the chassis and the ultrasonic sensor on the front of the rover for obstacle detection. We will also place the color sensor on the bottom of the rover for detecting the finish line for the drag race. We will power the rover using a battery pack that can be found below in the BOM. 




BOM:

Item	Quantity	Price Per Unit	Link
20 mm Caster Bearing wheel	1	1.95	https://www.adafruit.com/product/3948
DC Gearbox Motor	2	5.90	https://www.adafruit.com/product/3777
Aluminum Chassis	1	14.95	https://www.adafruit.com/product/3796
Battery Holder	1	2.95	https://www.adafruit.com/product/3859
IR Sensor	2	29.90	https://www.adafruit.com/product/164
Ultrasonic Distance Sensor	1	6.95	https://www.adafruit.com/product/4019

Color Sensor	1	7.95	https://www.adafruit.com/product/1356
Wheels	2	3.00	https://www.adafruit.com/product/3763
STM320F Discovery board	1	N/A	N/A
Motor Drivers
Plan A: Our group’s Motor Drivers
Plan B: Commercial	2	
Plan A: N/A


Plan B: 6.95	
Plan A: N/A


Plan B: https://www.adafruit.com/product/2448
Breadboards	1-3	~ 5	N/A: (purchase from stock room)
Wires/Solder/Misc.	N/A	~ 5	N/A: (purchase from stock room
Total:		$123-130	












Tentative Schedule:
Mar 17): At this stage we will have ordered all of our parts and have come up with a schematic based off of our components’ datasheets. We will also have ordered any backup/contingency parts, purchased necessary parts from the stockroom, and ordered any last minute parts we forgot about during planning stages. And finally we will have chosen the pins on the STM32F discovery board that we will be using and identified which register values we think we need to modify for correct function. 
Mar 24): At this stage we will have assembled our board or in the worst case have the layout ready so we just need to insert any parts that haven’t arrived yet. We also will have done some initial testing with our different components to see if replacement parts need to be purchased. 
Mar 31): At this stage we will have figured out how to communicate with each of the sensors and made sure that we have figured out the code necessary to communicate with the discovery board. 
Apr 7): At this stage we will have figured out how to operate the rover and have tested our obstacle detection abilities on a variety of obstacles. 
Apr 14): At this stage we will have tested our drag race ability and finalized our obstacle detection abilities and have the rover at a basic working level.
Apr 21): At this stage our goal is to have optimized our approaches for both events and have our best solution finalized. 






Next Steps: 
Find out sensitivities of sensors, estimate and test sensor ranges.

Calculate how the color sensor picks up the line for the drag race and how well the proximity sensors will detect the obstacles.  Test sensors with a range of obstacles/lines to make sure that the sensors work as planned and have back up sensors selected

After purchasing new motor driver boards, learn how to have them work with the discovery board. Order commercial boards as a back up and test them out early on to see if they will work


